Now with that, let's go back to our app and let's make sure we can also click that order now button because
whilst implementing this, I can also show you one other nice feature or nice approach you should be aware
of when working with classes. In the shopping cart,
we also got a button there right,
we got a button which we render here. Of course I also want to make this clickable, though it won't do
much here and to make it clickable, I'll get access to this button here, order button with cart el query
selector for example, selecting the first and only button we find there
and then as you're used to, you can add an event listener here and that event listener can be added to
a click event or react upon a click event and should then execute a method. Now here I want to add a method
which should be triggered when we click that button, order products for example and I won't add much logic
here, just some output ordering and also I want to output this.items,
so my cart items here,
so this.items is what I want to output here. Now it's this order products method which should now
be connected to the click listener and therefore here, we refer to this,
so to the object we're working on, order products without parentheses so that that click event executes
that for us.
Now as you know, this in there if I click order will be undefined here or will not be our object, undefined
here is of course actually stemming from the items I'm trying to access,
this is not a property that exists on this because this will actually refer to the button as you can
see if we remove .items
right,
this is the button.
This is something we talked about before.
Now I also showed you a solution of course, one solution and I'll just quickly re-add that is to use bind
here, another solution is to here
use an anonymous arrow function. If you do this and that's all it takes, this here
is then the function body, then this here since arrow functions don't know this, will not be bound to what the
event listener wants to bind it because the arrow function ignores this
as you learned
but instead it will keep its context
so to say, it will refer to the exact same thing it would refer to in that code in general.
So by wrapping it in an arrow function like this, we ensure that this works.
The only thing we now have to do is we have to execute it here because this is now the function body
of that arrow function,
we could add curly braces around it and therefore this will not executed right away
instead we pass a reference to that anonymous function which is created here on the fly to event
listener and therefore it is anonymous function will be executed by the event listener eventually and
the body of the function therefore then only runs when that anonymous function executes
which is why here in the body we have to execute this so that this does execute when this outer anonymous
function executes.
And with that if you reload and you add something to the cart and you click order now,
now this works and indeed we get access to our items.
This is one possible approach, an alternative to that and let's comment this out is that you don't use
that wrapping arrow function and therefore you get rid of the parentheses there,
instead we use the old approach but now you set up order products differently and
that's also something you can do. You can add it using this field syntax here because you could add a field
named order products which then simply holds a function,
that wouldn't change much though but how about an arrow function?
Now we're not using the method shorthand, instead
I'm creating a field which holds an arrow function and since arrow functions don't care about what
you bound this to, instead they always give you this in the context it would have otherwise as well,
this since it's inside of that class here in the end will refer to the object created by the class.
So now with that, we also ensure that this inside of this function will always refer to the object
created by the class and not to what it would normally refer to
and in this case, that would be the button of course.
The only thing we have to be careful about here though is that normally this would work but since
render gets called in a constructor
when you called super, it will actually be called before a property is created based on that field, right?
That's what I explained earlier,
the fields are translated to properties after the constructor ran. So to utilize this workaround in this concrete
example here and it's really only because of how super works and how it calls render,
we would have to parse false in here so that super does not call render and then set up this, not as
a field but actually as a property with this order products equal which kind of replaces the field, just
so it just executes such that we can thereafter call render manually.
So again, this is just a workaround that's required for this exact use case.
This idea of storing an arrow function in a property or normally under different circumstances also in a
field would always work.
So now if I reload this and I add something here, you see that works as before now using this trick.
Now actually technically there is a difference between storing a function in a property and adding a
method like this but that's a bit more advanced and something we'll come back to in the next module where
we have a closer look behind the scenes of all of that.